Add secrets-provider blogpost (#3174)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/peace-of-mind-with-cloud-secret-providers/index.md

---
title: "Peace of Mind with Cloud Secret Providers"

date: 2020-04-29T14:26:35-07:00
draft: true

> meta_desc: "Learn how to encrypt your Pulumi secrets with a cloud secrets provider to ensure secrets never leave your control"

Reviewer: meta_desc is too long, I think it's limited to 60 char by Hugo

Author: Fixed!

meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - lee-briggs
tags:
    - features
    - security
---

> The secrets in your infrastructure are a vital part of your security model, and provisioning infrastructure is an inherently privileged process. Back in [Pulumi 0.17.12](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/managing-secrets-with-pulumi/) we introduced client-side secret encryption and started encrypting secret configuration values inside the Pulumi state so that users could be confident their passwords, tokens and other secret values were viewable only by them while managing their infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The secrets in your infrastructure are a vital part of your security model, and provisioning infrastructure is an inherently privileged process. Back in [Pulumi 0.17.12](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/managing-secrets-with-pulumi/), we introduced client-side secret encryption and encrypted secret configuration values inside the Pulumi state so that users could be confident their passwords, tokens, and other secret values were viewable only by them while managing their infrastructure.
```

Our first iteration of the client-side encryption used a passphrase for encrypting the secret, however, remembering that passphrase and sharing it securely with team members is less than ideal.

> That's why in our 0.17.28 release, we added support for "Cloud Secret Providers", giving users fill confidence that their sensitive values are for their eyes only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's why we also added support for "Cloud Secret Providers," giving users full confidence that their sensitive values are for their eyes only.
```

					},
					Resource: "*",
					Principal: Principal{
						AWS: rootIamRole,
					},
				},
				{
					Sid:      "AllowIAMUserAccessKeys",
					Effect:   "Allow",
					Action:   []string{"kms:*"},
					Resource: "*",
					Principal: Principal{
						AWS: iamRole,
					},
				},
			},
		}

		keyPolicy, err := json.Marshal(rawKeyPolicy)

		if err != nil {
			panic("Error formatting keypolicy")
		}

		// Create an AWS KMS key
		key, err := kms.NewKey(ctx, "stack-encryption-key", &kms.KeyArgs{
			Description:          pulumi.String("KMS key for encrypting Pulumi secret values"),
			DeletionWindowInDays: pulumi.Int(10),
			Policy:               pulumi.String(string(keyPolicy)),
		})
		if err != nil {
			return err
		}

		// Create an alias to the key
		alias, err := kms.NewAlias(ctx, "alias/stack-encryption-key", &kms.AliasArgs{
			TargetKeyId: key.KeyId,
		})
		if err != nil {
			return err
		}

		// Export the name of the bucket
		ctx.Export("keyArn", key.Arn)
		ctx.Export("keyAlias", alias.Arn)
		return nil
	})
}
```
{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}
```csharp
<insert csharp here>
```
{{% /choosable %}}

{{< /chooser >}}

> In this example, we've made the IAM role allowed access to the key in the key policy configurable to an IAM role, and we've also given read permissions to the key to everyone in the account. Let's set some configuration variables now so we can be sure we can use this key for our next Pulumi stack:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we've made the IAM role allowed access to the key in the key policy configurable to an IAM role, and we've also given read permissions to the key to everyone in the account. Let's set some configuration variables so we can be sure we can use this key for our next Pulumi stack:
```

```bash
# Get the current AWS account ID and set it as a config variable
aws sts get-caller-identity | jq .Account -r | pulumi config set <projectname>:accountID
# Get the current IAM role we're using as set it as a config variable
aws sts get-caller-identity | jq .Arn -r | pulumi config set <projectname>:iamRole
```

## Initialize a New Stack

> Now our key has been created and is adequately scoped we can create a new stack and use the `secrets-provider` flag on creation to specify the KMS key to encrypt our secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now our key has been created and is adequately scoped; we can create a new stack and use the `secrets-provider` flag on creation to specify the KMS key to encrypt our secrets.
```

```bash
# In our examples we set our alias to "stack-encryption-key" so we'll use that
# Note, we need to set the region we're deploying to
pulumi new aws-typescript -n <projectname> -s <stackname> -d "An example stack encrypted with AWS KMS" --secrets-provider="awskms://alias/stack-encryption-key?region=us-west-2" --config aws:region=us-west-2
```

> You can check inside your `Pulumi.<stackname>.yaml` which key you're using to encrypt your secrets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check inside your `Pulumi.<stackname>.yaml` for which key you're using to encrypt your secrets:
```

```yaml
secretsprovider: awskms://alias/stack-encryption-key?region=us-west-2
encryptedkey: AQICAHjqW3rb5Hw5Vpxi0c1sayz52VXj7yn20WVwsVILJSBU8wFDjvGuox3wDCJX99TxZFzAAAAAfjB8BgkqhkiG9w0BBwagbzBtAgEAMGgGCSqGSIb3DQEHATAeBglghkgBZQMEAS4wEQQMWNeFRZIg8kVXMxrUAgEQgDtz6zV0aqegeAbmaQUNllMp8PQJa1qbjBH813I/XH6LbfynxZO9NE3sYPG89G0u/ltYsADiUAFS0bnadQ==
config:
  aws:region: us-west-2
```

## Use your Encrypted Secret

Now we've initialized our stack we can add a secret configuration value using the secret flag and see the encrypted config value in the stack configuration:

```bash
pulumi config set --secret <projectname>:supersecret correct-horse-battery-stable
```

> Verify the encryption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Verify the encryption

```

> To verify that the secret is indeed only accessible to the KMS key we created earlier, we can verify by removing access to the key temporarily and trying to perform a Pulumi operation. First, let's use the secret in our stack:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that the secret is indeed only accessible to the KMS key we created earlier, we can remove access to the key temporarily and try to perform a Pulumi operation. First, let's use the secret in our stack:
```

{{< chooser language "javascript,typescript,python,go,csharp" >}}

{{% choosable language typescript %}}

```typescript
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";

const config = new pulumi.Config();
export const superSecret = config.require("supersecret");
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language javascript %}}

```javascript
"use strict";
const pulumi = require("@pulumi/pulumi");

const config = new pulumi.Config();
exports.superSecret = config.require("supersecret");
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language python %}}

```python
import pulumi
config = pulumi.Config()

pulumi.export('superSecret',  config.require("supersecret"))
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language go %}}

```go
package main

import (
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v2/go/pulumi"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v2/go/pulumi/config"
)

func main() {
	pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
		config := config.New(ctx, "")
		superSecret := config.Require("supersecret")

		ctx.Export("superSecret", pulumi.String(superSecret))
		return nil
	})
}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}

```csharp
<insert csharp here>
```
{{% /choosable %}}

{{< /chooser >}}

> Now we need to verify the value is _actually_ encrypted. An easy way to do that is to try and export the secret value without access to the key. Let's unset the AWS_PROFILE environment variable and then rerun `Pulumi up`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we need to verify if the value is _actually_ encrypted. An easy way to do that is to try and export the secret value without access to the key. Let's unset the AWS_PROFILE environment variable and then rerun `Pulumi up`:
```

```bash
unset AWS_PROFILE
pulumi up
error: getting secrets manager: secrets (code=Unknown): InvalidSignatureException: The request signature we calculated does not match the signature you provided. Check your AWS Secret Access Key and signing method. Consult the service documentation for details.
	status code: 400, request id: 9cf7508d-a7d5-40bb-b40f-98f68e82ac74
```

Excellent! We can't read these values without access to this KMS key. We can be safe in the knowledge our secret values are only readable by us, including when stored in the Pulumi state!

## Wrap up

> This example showed how to use client-side encryption with AWS KMS, but Pulumi as mentioned before, Pulumi has support for Azure KeyVault, Google Cloud KMS and Hashicorp Vault for storing your keys. You can find examples of how to use these encryption methods in our [examples repo](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/secrets-provider) and take a look at our [secrets provider documentation](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/config/#available-encryption-providers). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example showed how to use client-side encryption with AWS KMS, but Pulumi, as mentioned before, has support for Azure KeyVault, Google Cloud KMS, and Hashicorp Vault for storing your keys. You can find examples of how to use these encryption methods in our [examples repo](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/secrets-provider) and take a look at our [secrets provider documentation](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/config/#available-encryption-providers). 
```

---
title: "Peace of Mind with Cloud Secret Providers"

date: 2020-04-29T14:26:35-07:00
draft: true
meta_desc: "Learn how to encrypt your Pulumi secrets with a cloud secrets provider to ensure secrets never leave your control"
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - lee-briggs
tags:
    - features
    - security
---

> The secrets in your infrastructure are a vital part of your security model, and provisioning infrastructure is an inherently privileged process. Back in [Pulumi 0.17.12](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/managing-secrets-with-pulumi/) we introduced client-side secret encryption and started encrypting secret configuration values inside the Pulumi state so that users could be confident their passwords, tokens and other secret values were viewable only by them while managing their infrastructure.

Author: Good point, will fix!

Our first iteration of the client-side encryption used a passphrase for encrypting the secret, however, remembering that passphrase and sharing it securely with team members is less than ideal.

> That's why in our 0.17.28 release, we added support for "Cloud Secret Providers", giving users fill confidence that their sensitive values are for their eyes only.

Reviewer 2: typo: s/fill/full

<!--more-->

> Pulumi supports encryption via [AWS KMS](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/), [Azure KeyVault](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/key-vault/), [Google Cloud KMS](https://cloud.google.com/kms) and [Hashicorp Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/). This post shows you how to create an AWS KMS in a stack using Pulumi, and then use the key to encrypt values in subsequent stacks.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to suggest that this is a series of posts? Or can we just say that we will use AWS as an example of how to do this?

Author: I wasn't planning on doing this for Azure and GCP, certainly not in the short term. I'll reword it

## Create a KMS Key

> First, we need to create our KMS key. We also want to set an alias on the key to make it easier to reference later:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, create a KMS key. We can set an alias on the key to make it easier to reference later:
```

Author: Good feedback!

		})
		if err != nil {
			return err
		}

		// Create an alias to the key
		alias, err := kms.NewAlias(ctx, "alias/stack-encryption-key", &kms.AliasArgs{
			TargetKeyId: key.KeyId,
		})
		if err != nil {
			return err
		}

		// Export the arns
		ctx.Export("keyArn", key.Arn)
		ctx.Export("keyAlias", alias.Arn)
		return nil
	})
}
```
{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}
```csharp
using Pulumi;
using Kms = Pulumi.Aws.Kms;

class KeyStack : Stack
{
    public KeyStack()
    {
        // Create a new KMS key
        var key = new Kms.Key("stack-encryption-key", new Kms.KeyArgs
        {
            DeletionWindowInDays = 10,
            Description = "KMS key for encrypting Pulumi secret values"
        });

        // Create a new alias to the key
        var alias = new Kms.Alias("alias/stack-encryption-key", new Kms.AliasArgs
        {
            TargetKeyId = key.KeyId
        });

        this.KeyArn = key.Arn;
        this.AliasArn = alias.Arn;
    }

    [Output("keyArn")] public Output<string> KeyArn { get; set; }
    [Output("aliasArn")] public Output<string> AliasArn { get; set; }
}
```
{{% /choosable %}}

{{< /chooser >}}

> Creating the key is enough to allow us to start using it for our encryption provider. However, we need to consider who has access to the key before we start utilizing it with Pulumi.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Creating the key is enough to allow us to start using it for our encryption provider, but security is something that needs to be taken seriously, so it's important to consider who has access to the key before it gets used with Pulumi
```

maybe?

            "Action": ["kms:Describe*", "kms:Get*", "kms:List*"],
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": ["arn:aws:iam::{}:root".format(account_id)]
            },
            "Resource": "*",
        },
        # This is a configurable statement that we can use to allow access to an IAM arn
        {
            "Sid": "AllowIAMUserAccessKeys",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": ["kms:*"],
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": iam_role,
            },
            "Resource": "*",
        }
    ]
}
# Create an AWS KMS key
key = kms.Key("stack-encryption-key",
    deletion_window_in_days=10,
    description="KMS key for encrypting Pulumi secret values",
    policy=json.dumps(key_policy)
)

alias = kms.Alias("alias/stack-encryption-key",
    target_key_id=key.key_id
)

# Export the name of the bucket
pulumi.export('key_arn',  key.arn)
pulumi.export('alias_arn', alias.arn)
```
{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language go %}}

```go
package main

import (
	"encoding/json"
	"fmt"

	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/sdk/v2/go/aws/kms"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v2/go/pulumi"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v2/go/pulumi/config"
)

func main() {

> 	type Principal struct {

Reviewer 2: So I *LOVE* these - but this shows a limitation in our core support - we should go with the standard JSON style building here IMO and we can open an issue around adding this overlay

$0.02

Author: I'm in two minds about this. I actually think the `json` string inside a `fmt` call looks horrible. I initially wrote it this way and got sick of debugging the errors/trying to get it right but I think it might be personal preference. Anyone else fancy chiming in? I'm not opposed to changing it...

Reviewer 3: Yeah - though very verbose - I actually think the style as written feels more Go-native than doing something with raw strings.  Can't wait to provide all the types out of the box!  (hopefully soon?)

Author: Will leave this as it is!

---
title: "Peace of Mind with Cloud Secret Providers"

date: 2020-05-07T14:30:35-07:00
draft: false
meta_desc: "Encrypt your Pulumi secrets with a cloud secrets provider"
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - lee-briggs
tags:
    - features
    - security
---

The secrets in your infrastructure are a vital part of your security model, and provisioning infrastructure is an inherently privileged process. [Previously](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/managing-secrets-with-pulumi/) we introduced client-side secret encryption and started encrypting secret configuration values inside the Pulumi state so that users could be confident their passwords, tokens and other secret values were viewable only by them while managing their infrastructure.

> Our first iteration of the client-side encryption used a passphrase for encrypting the secret, however, remembering that passphrase and sharing it securely with team members is less than ideal.

Reviewer 3: Note that we supported two options initially - secrets managed by the Pulumi Service, and secrets managed manually via a passphrase.

> That's why we also added support for "Cloud Secret Providers", giving users full confidence that their sensitive values are for their eyes only.

Reviewer 3: I wonder if we should update our docs to also use this term Cloud Secret Providers.  The language we currently use there is a bit different (but probably not better): https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/config/#initializing-a-stack-with-alternative-encryption

Author: I can do this as a separate item!

<!--more-->

> Pulumi supports encryption via [AWS KMS](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/), [Azure KeyVault](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/key-vault/), [Google Cloud KMS](https://cloud.google.com/kms) and [Hashicorp Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/). This post shows you _one_ example of using a cloud secret provider in a Pulumi stack using AWS KMS.

Reviewer 3: I do think it's worth noting that Pulumi supports encryption via the Pulumi Service itself - so users can get encryption of sensitive configuration and state automatically with no extra effort.  But that users who want to use their own encryption can do that with these cloud secret providers.

		if err != nil {
			return err
		}

		// Export the arns
		ctx.Export("keyArn", key.Arn)
		ctx.Export("keyAlias", alias.Arn)
		return nil
	})
}
```
{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}
```csharp
using Pulumi;
using Kms = Pulumi.Aws.Kms;

class KeyStack : Stack
{
    public KeyStack()
    {
        // Create a new KMS key
        var key = new Kms.Key("stack-encryption-key", new Kms.KeyArgs
        {
            DeletionWindowInDays = 10,
            Description = "KMS key for encrypting Pulumi secret values"
        });

        // Create a new alias to the key
        var alias = new Kms.Alias("alias/stack-encryption-key", new Kms.AliasArgs
        {
            TargetKeyId = key.KeyId
        });

        this.KeyArn = key.Arn;
        this.AliasArn = alias.Arn;
    }

    [Output("keyArn")] public Output<string> KeyArn { get; set; }
    [Output("aliasArn")] public Output<string> AliasArn { get; set; }
}
```
{{% /choosable %}}

{{< /chooser >}}

Creating the key is enough to allow us to start using it for our encryption provider. However, we need to consider who has access to the key before we start utilizing it with Pulumi.

## Scoping Permission to our Key

> Generally, in AWS, you scope access to resources using IAM roles. However, for sensitive values like KMS keys, IAM roles alone aren't enough to provide the security you might need. As an example, if someone in your AWS account as an IAM role with the following policy attached:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Generally, in AWS, you scope access to resources using IAM roles. However, for sensitive values like KMS keys, IAM roles alone aren't enough to provide the security you might need. As an example, if someone in your AWS account has an IAM role with the following policy attached:
```

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "Stmt1588215924595",
      "Action": "kms:*",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

That user gets access to every KMS key in your account, which would also mean they could decrypt any secret in your Pulumi stack.

> To rectify this, we need to attach a Key Policy to the key:

Reviewer 3: Perhaps make it clear that we are updating our code from before - not deploying a whole separate thing?

		ctx.Export("keyArn", key.Arn)
		ctx.Export("keyAlias", alias.Arn)
		return nil
	})
}
```
{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}
```csharp
using Pulumi;
using Kms = Pulumi.Aws.Kms;

class KeyStack : Stack
{
    public KeyStack()
    {
        var config = new Config();
        var iamRole = config.Require("iamRole");
        var accountID = config.Require("accountID");

        var keyPolicy = $@"{{
            ""Version"": ""2012-10-17"",
            ""Id"": ""policy"",
            ""Statement"": [
            {{
                ""Sid"": ""AllowGetKeys"",
                ""Effect"": ""Allow"",
                ""Action"": [""kms:Describe*"", ""kms:Get*"", ""kms:List*""],
                ""Principal"": {{
                    ""AWS"": [""arn:aws:iam::{accountID}:root""]
                }},
                ""Resource"": ""*""
            }},
            {{
                ""Sid"": ""AllowIAMUserAccessKeys"",
                ""Effect"": ""Allow"",
                ""Action"": [""kms:*""],
                ""Principal"": {{
                    ""AWS"": ""{iamRole}""
                }},
                ""Resource"": ""*""
            }}
            ]

>         }}";

Reviewer 3: Any reason to be different than Go here?  Might make sense to be consistent.

Author: I think this is just because @mikhailshilkov wrote this for me (thanks @mikhailshilkov!)

Reviewer 4: Should I convert to a dynamic object? It would probably look better indeed.

        this.AliasArn = alias.Arn;
    }

    [Output("keyArn")] public Output<string> KeyArn { get; set; }
    [Output("aliasArn")] public Output<string> AliasArn { get; set; }
}
```
{{% /choosable %}}

{{< /chooser >}}

In this example, we've made the IAM role allowed access to the key in the key policy configurable to an IAM role, and we've also given read permissions to the key to everyone in the account. Let's set some configuration variables so we can be sure we can use this key for our next Pulumi stack:

```bash
# Get the current AWS account ID and set it as a config variable
aws sts get-caller-identity | jq .Account -r | pulumi config set <projectname>:accountID
# Get the current IAM role we're using as set it as a config variable
aws sts get-caller-identity | jq .Arn -r | pulumi config set <projectname>:iamRole
```

## Initialize a New Stack

Now our key has been created and is adequately scoped; we can create a new stack and use the `secrets-provider` flag on creation to specify the KMS key to encrypt our secrets.

```bash
# In our examples we set our alias to "stack-encryption-key" so we'll use that
# Note, we need to set the region we're deploying to

> pulumi new aws-typescript -n <projectname> -s <stackname> -d "An example stack encrypted with AWS KMS" --secrets-provider="awskms://alias/stack-encryption-key?region=us-west-2" --config aws:region=us-west-2

Reviewer 3: Does `stack-encryption-key` not end up having any random hex at the end in practice?  I might have expected a `pulumi stack output` to be needed here?

```

> You can check inside your `Pulumi.<stackname>.yaml` for which key you're using to encrypt your secrets:

Reviewer 3: You could possibly add an aside that the `encryptedkey` stored here is the encrypted version of the data key used to encrypt secrets - and refer to https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/concepts.html for details on how data keys work with AWS KMS.

Author: Done!

```yaml
secretsprovider: awskms://alias/stack-encryption-key?region=us-west-2
encryptedkey: AQICAHjqW3rb5Hw5Vpxi0c1sayz52VXj7yn20WVwsVILJSBU8wFDjvGuox3wDCJX99TxZFzAAAAAfjB8BgkqhkiG9w0BBwagbzBtAgEAMGgGCSqGSIb3DQEHATAeBglghkgBZQMEAS4wEQQMWNeFRZIg8kVXMxrUAgEQgDtz6zV0aqegeAbmaQUNllMp8PQJa1qbjBH813I/XH6LbfynxZO9NE3sYPG89G0u/ltYsADiUAFS0bnadQ==
config:
  aws:region: us-west-2
```

## Use your Encrypted Secret

Now we've initialized our stack we can add a secret configuration value using the secret flag and see the encrypted config value in the stack configuration:

```bash

> pulumi config set --secret <projectname>:supersecret correct-horse-battery-stable

Reviewer 3: You can leave project name off - it's the implied default.

```suggestion
pulumi config set --secret supersecret correct-horse-battery-stable
```

```

## Verify the encryption

> To verify that the secret is indeed only accessible to the KMS key we created earlier, we can remove access to the key temporarily and try to perform a Pulumi operation. First, let's use the secret in our stack:

Reviewer 3: How should the "remove access to the key temporarily"?

```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language javascript %}}

```javascript
"use strict";
const pulumi = require("@pulumi/pulumi");

const config = new pulumi.Config();
exports.superSecret = config.require("supersecret");
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language python %}}

```python
import pulumi
config = pulumi.Config()

pulumi.export('superSecret',  config.require("supersecret"))
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language go %}}

```go
package main

import (
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v2/go/pulumi"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v2/go/pulumi/config"
)

func main() {
	pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
		config := config.New(ctx, "")
		superSecret := config.Require("supersecret")

		ctx.Export("superSecret", pulumi.String(superSecret))
		return nil
	})
}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}

```csharp
using Pulumi;

class AnotherStack : Stack
{
    public AnotherStack()
    {
        var config = new Config();
        this.SuperSecret = Output.Create(config.Require("supersecret"));
    }

    [Output("superSecret")] public Output<string> SuperSecret { get; set; }
}
```
{{% /choosable %}}

{{< /chooser >}}

> Now we need to verify if the value is _actually_ encrypted. An easy way to do that is to try and export the secret value without access to the key. Let's unset the AWS_PROFILE environment variable and then rerun `Pulumi up`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now we need to verify if the value is _actually_ encrypted. An easy way to do that is to try and export the secret value without access to the key. Let's unset the AWS_PROFILE environment variable and then rerun `pulumi up`:
```

```bash

> unset AWS_PROFILE

Reviewer 3: Not sure that all users will be using an `AWS_PROFILE` to configure access.  Is there another way to highlight this that is more general?

Author: I've reworded this to make it more clear what `AWS_PROFILE` is and what other users would need to do.

pulumi up
error: getting secrets manager: secrets (code=Unknown): InvalidSignatureException: The request signature we calculated does not match the signature you provided. Check your AWS Secret Access Key and signing method. Consult the service documentation for details.
	status code: 400, request id: 9cf7508d-a7d5-40bb-b40f-98f68e82ac74
```

> Excellent! We can't read these values without access to this KMS key. We can be safe in the knowledge our secret values are only readable by us, including when stored in the Pulumi state!

Reviewer 3: The one last thing to potentially highlight is that these secrets are secret not just in the config file, but *also* in the checkpoint.  Create a resource using the secret as an input, and then `pulumi stack export` and show that the values for that resource are stored encrypted in the state file.

```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language javascript %}}

```javascript
"use strict";
const pulumi = require("@pulumi/pulumi");

const config = new pulumi.Config();
exports.superSecret = config.require("supersecret");
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language python %}}

```python
import pulumi
config = pulumi.Config()

pulumi.export('superSecret',  config.require("supersecret"))
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language go %}}

```go
package main

import (
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v2/go/pulumi"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v2/go/pulumi/config"
)

func main() {
	pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
		config := config.New(ctx, "")
		superSecret := config.Require("supersecret")

		ctx.Export("superSecret", pulumi.String(superSecret))
		return nil
	})
}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}

```csharp
using Pulumi;

class AnotherStack : Stack
{
    public AnotherStack()
    {
        var config = new Config();
        this.SuperSecret = Output.Create(config.Require("supersecret"));
    }

    [Output("superSecret")] public Output<string> SuperSecret { get; set; }
}
```
{{% /choosable %}}

{{< /chooser >}}

> Now we need to verify if the value is _actually_ encrypted. An easy way to do that is to try and export the secret value without access to the key. In my setup, I use the `AWS_PROFILE` environment variable which refers to a [named profile](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-profiles.html) to configure access to AWS. If I unset this environment variable, I will no longer be using the AWS credentials that have access to this KMS key. Let's unset the AWS_PROFILE environment variable and then rerun `pulumi up`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we need to verify if the value is _actually_ encrypted. An easy way to do that is to try and export the secret value without access to the key. In my setup, I use the `AWS_PROFILE` environment variable, which refers to a [named profile](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-profiles.html) to configure access to AWS. If I unset this environment variable, I will no longer be using the AWS credentials that have access to this KMS key. Let's unset the AWS_PROFILE environment variable and then rerun `pulumi up`:
```

---
title: "Peace of Mind with Cloud Secret Providers"

date: 2020-05-07T14:30:35-07:00
draft: false
meta_desc: "Encrypt your Pulumi secrets with a cloud secrets provider"
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - lee-briggs
tags:
    - features
    - security
---

> The secrets in your infrastructure are a vital part of your security model, and provisioning infrastructure is an inherently privileged process. [Previously](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/managing-secrets-with-pulumi/) we introduced secret encryption and started encrypting secret configuration values inside the Pulumi state so that users could be confident their passwords, tokens and other secret values were viewable only by them while managing their infrastructure.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The secrets in your infrastructure are a vital part of your security model, and provisioning infrastructure is an inherently privileged process. [Previously]({{< relref "/blog/managing-secrets-with-pulumi" >}}) we introduced secret encryption and started encrypting secret configuration values inside the Pulumi state so that users could be confident their passwords, tokens and other secret values were viewable only by them while managing their infrastructure.
```

Our first iteration of the encryption used either a passphrase for encrypting the secret or encryption via the Pulumi service backend. However, these options didn't meet the needs of our users who needed more control over their data.
That's why we also added support for "Cloud Secret Providers", giving users full confidence that their sensitive values are for their eyes only.

<!--more-->

> Pulumi supports encryption via the [Pulumi service](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/config/#configuring-secrets-encryption), [AWS KMS](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/), [Azure KeyVault](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/key-vault/), [Google Cloud KMS](https://cloud.google.com/kms) and [Hashicorp Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/). This post shows you _one_ example of using a cloud secret provider in a Pulumi stack using AWS KMS.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Pulumi supports encryption via the [Pulumi service]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/config#configuring-secrets-encryption" >}}), [AWS KMS](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/), [Azure KeyVault](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/key-vault/), [Google Cloud KMS](https://cloud.google.com/kms) and [Hashicorp Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/). This post shows you _one_ example of using a cloud secret provider in a Pulumi stack using AWS KMS.
```

```csharp
using Pulumi;
using Pulumi.Aws.S3;

class AnotherStack : Stack
{
    public AnotherStack()
    {
        var config = new Config();
        this.SuperSecret = config.RequireSecret("supersecret");

        var bucket = new Bucket("bucket", new BucketArgs {
            Acl = "private",
        });

        var bucketObject = new BucketObject("secret", new BucketObjectArgs {
            Bucket = bucket.Id,
            Key = "secret",
            Content = SuperSecret

        });
    }
    [Output("superSecret")] public Output<string> SuperSecret { get; set; }
}

```

{{<% /chooseable %>}}

{{< /chooser >}}

We now need to look inside our Pulumi statefile to verify the value is encoded there. We can do this with `pulumi stack export` and some JSON manipulation magic using [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/):

```bash
pulumi stack export | jq '.deployment.resources[].outputs | select(.content).content'
```

The result should look like this:

```json
{
  "4dabf18193072939515e22adb298388d": "1b47061264138c4ac30d75fd1eb44270",
  "ciphertext": "v1:cQ5qr21hTdb2PTM5:ZwEW8pN1kC6fUlppi1eS84D/lodoe54wV2dgEsqu0csu2VyTQg0wTf8Qv7axCQ=="
}
```

## Wrap up

> This example showed how to use client-side encryption with AWS KMS, but Pulumi, as mentioned before, has support for Azure KeyVault, Google Cloud KMS, and Hashicorp Vault for storing your keys. You can find examples of how to use these encryption methods in our [examples repo](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/secrets-provider) and take a look at our [secrets provider documentation](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/config/#available-encryption-providers).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This example showed how to use client-side encryption with AWS KMS, but Pulumi, as mentioned before, has support for Azure KeyVault, Google Cloud KMS, and Hashicorp Vault for storing your keys. You can find examples of how to use these encryption methods in our [examples repo](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/secrets-provider) and take a look at our [secrets provider documentation]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/config#available-encryption-providers" >}}).
```
